I'm not interested.
Have you ever had someone tell you that in the ministry?
Some people may simply want us to go away.
Others, however, may end the conversation if they can't see how our message affects
them personally.
So we need to present information that will help our listeners and then show them how
to apply what they just heard.
For instance, imagine that a natural disaster has recently affected part of your territory.
How might you include this in your presentation?
Let's watch an example.
Hello.
It's good to meet you.
I'm glad to see that this neighborhood wasn't affected by the recent heavy rains and
mudslide.
Yeah, it wasn't too bad here, but we did have a few trees fall behind the house.
Well, I don't want to take a lot of your time.
We're calling to talk about hope for loved ones who've died.
Do you think we'll ever see them again?
Thanks, but I'm not really interested.
What just happened?
Would you say that the publisher made clear the practical value of his information?
Although he mentioned the recent storm, he failed to notice its effect on the householder.
And when he learned how the householder felt, he didn't tailor his presentation to the
man's needs.
True, all of the good news of the kingdom is valuable.
But some aspects may appeal to people more at specific times in their life.
Moreover, if we ignore topics that are on people's minds, they might think we're inconsiderate
or rude.
In the example we just watched, what Bible account might have made the person think?
Let's watch again.
My heart goes out to those who've lost their homes in the recent heavy rains and mudslide.
Me too.
We've been helping a family member try to recover some personal belongings.
We're just happy that no one was hurt.
Well, that's a relief for sure.
And it's nice to see the community coming together to help one another.
Did you know that the Bible promises a time when we'll no longer experience devastation
from so-called natural disasters?
Really?
What do you mean?
Well, think about the power Jesus displayed when he lived on the earth.
Notice what it says here at Mark 4, verse 39.
With that, he got up and rebuked the wind and said to the sea, hush, be quiet, and the
wind abated.
The publisher used a local topic of interest and the Bible account that the householder
could relate to.
We can also make practical application of our material when giving a talk.
However, when teaching an audience what to do, be careful not to burden them with guilt.
Instead strengthen their love and faith and express confidence in their good motives.
If you're preparing a public talk, consider the needs of newly interested ones.
Ask yourself, how can I help this audience to draw close to Jehovah and overcome obstacles
that could hinder them from making progress?
Let's watch a brief excerpt from a public talk.
Hebrews 10, 24 and 25 says,
And let us consider one another so as to incite to love and find works, not forsaking our
meeting together as some have the custom, but encouraging one another and all the more
so as you see the day drawing near.
So if it's your custom to miss meetings here at the Kingdom Hall, you need to change.
Jehovah knows when you're here and when you're not.
Armageddon's coming and you don't want to miss out on everlasting life.
Was that encouraging?
Was it motivating to those attending their first congregation meeting?
Although the speaker clearly showed what the audience needed to do, how might he have
strengthened their motivation?
Hebrews 10, 24 and 25 says,
And let us consider one another so as to incite to love and find works, not forsaking
our meeting together as some have the custom, but encouraging one another and all the more
so as you see the day drawing near.
Within these verses, we find important reasons to attend congregation meetings regularly.
For instance, we receive encouragement who doesn't need that.
This is true all the more so since we're living in critical times and Jehovah's Day is
drawing near.
Moreover, attending congregation meetings gives us the opportunity to incite others to
love and find works.
Yes, even your presence here is motivating.
How so?
Because you've shown that no matter what else is happening in your life, there is nothing
more important to you than praising and honoring Jehovah here with the congregation.
So just seeing you here fills us with strength.
By making the practical value of our message clear to our listeners, we help them to understand
how the information affects their lives, and we motivate them to action.